.TH bin2c 1 "2013-09-29" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
bin2c \(em embed data files into C as variables
.SH Syntax
\fBbin2c\fP [\fB\-C\fP \fIprogram-file\fP] [\fB\-D\fP \fIdir_prefix\fP]
[\fB\-H\fP \fIheader-file\fP] [\fB\-G\fP \fIguard-name\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP \fInum\fP] [\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-\-ultra\fP] [\fB\-\-wxbitmap\fP]
\fIfile\fP...
.SH Description
bin2c converts files to C variables. It does so by reading the contents of each
file supplied on the argument line and writes out C program code that defines a
variable with the file's contents.
.PP
hxtools's bin2c implementation supports:
.IP \(bu 4
space-efficient encoding of the arbitrary data
.IP \(bu 4
multiple input files
.IP \(bu 4
creation of either a standalone .h file, or a .c/.h file pair. (See
examples below.)
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-C\fP \fIfile\fP
If specified, causes the variable \fBdefinition\fP to be emitted to the given
filename.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP \fIdir_prefix\fP
All filenames on the command line will be prefixed with the given directory.
This has the implication that files will be searched relative to
\fIdir_prefix\fP, while the variable name ending up in the C source for an
image will remain non-prefixed.
.TP
\fB\-G\fP \fIname\fP
Request that an include guard by the identifier \fIguard-name\fP is emitted
into the header file. If \-C was specified and a .c/.h pair is generated, an
include guard is always emitted, and the \-G option can be used to set that
name.
.TP
\fB\-H\fP \fIfile\fP
The file where the variable \fBdeclarations\fP will be emitted to. If \fB\-C\fP
was not specified, \fIh-file\fP will not contain any header guard by default,
and it will contain the variable definition, the latter of which will be marked
as \fBstatic\fP (file scope).
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fInum\fP
Strip \fInum\fP leading path components when transforming input paths to
variable names. If \fInum\fP is negative, that many trailing path components
are \fBretained\fP. If \fB\-p\fP is not specified, the default is -1.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Be verbose. Show all the names and filenames that bin2c will write.
.TP
\fB\-\-ultra\fP
Writeout the raw data as a string literal. As the literal contains a trailing
NUL byte, the size of the array is necessarily also one byte longer than the
raw data, which you need to account for. (In C, it would be possible to write
char x[3] = "ABC", but this leads to an error in C++ where x[4] is required.)
.TP
\fB\-\-wxbitmap\fP
Generate C++ code that generates wxBitmap objects. (Implies Ultra encoding,
and deals with it appropriately, too.)
.SH Examples
To generate a single C header file that behaves like XPM files and which is
suitable for inclusion into a C program file of your own:
.PP
bin2c \-H images.h foo.png bar.png
.PP
To generate a .c/.h pair instead, the invocation is:
.PP
bin2c \-C images.c foo.png bar.png
.PP
This will create a C program file "images.c" containing all the definitions
and a "images.h" that your code can use to get ahold of the declarations.
.SH History
hxtools's bin2c developed from the earlier png2wx.pl utility.
.SH See also
\fBhxtools\fP(7)
