.TH gpsh 1 "2015-03-11" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
gpsh \(em select audio files by name and play them
.SH Syntax
\fBgpsh\fP [\fB\-F\fP \fIindex.m9u\fP] [\fB-OM,\fP\fIopt\fP]
[\fB\-blvxz\fP] \fIpatterns\fP...
.SH Description
gpsh is a utility that will search the current directory for audio/video files
by matching their path and filename with regular expression patterns presented
on the command line, and feeding them to a multimedia player. gpsh is capable
of reading special tracklist files which contain subtrack names and their
associated time positions.
.PP
When no pattern is given, all entries are selected. By default, all entries
which matched a particular pattern are played back in random order, but order
between patterns is retained.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIindex.m9u\fP
Give the path to the master index file. It is just a dump of the internal array
state in Perl form, so M9U is not exactly a format of its own. This index
contains: filename, and title and offset (for subtracks inside mixes).
.TP
\fB\-OM,\fP\fImplayer_opt\fP
Pass an extra argument to mplayer.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP
Do index rebuild in foreground.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP
Only grep the database.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Do print the playlist (can be very long).
.TP
\fB\-x\fP
Ignore subtracks in a mix, and also avoid reindexing of VBR files.
.TP
\fB\-z\fP
Do not shuffle the play queue / play back in lexicographic order.
.TP
\fB\-\-loop\fP \fIn\fP
Passes the -loop option to mplayer. Note that the option has \fBtwo\fP
dashes for gpsh.
.SH Index
gpsh keeps an index cache, and refreshes it in the background when it is older
than a day. If there is no index yet, playing files will be delayed until it
exists. Directories and files whose name without extension ends in "_noindex"
will be skipped.
.SH Tracklists for mixes
gpsh scans all .tls files for the following pattern used to denote a subtrack
in a big mix of the same basename:
.PP
/^\\[(?:(\d+):)?(\d+):(\d+)\\](.*)/
.PP
Example: Audio file: "DJ Doboy - Trancequility volume 01.mp3",
Tracklist: "DJ Doboy - Trancequility volume 01.tls",
TL content: "[48:29] Paul van Dyk - For an angel".
.SH Regex search
gpsh uses a Perl regular expression search across file name (mix name, if any)
and subtrack name.
.PP
Example: gpsh 'doboy.*trancequility.*paul.van.dyk'
.PP
Would cause gpsh to search for all PVD tracks in Doboy's Trancequility
mixes. mplayer will be invoked on "DJ Doboy - Trancequility volume 01.mp3"
with automatic seeking to position 48:29, for example.
.SH Extra options
gpsh \-OM,\-af\-clr chillout
.PP
Will invoke mplayer instances with the "\-af\-clr" option.
.SH See also
\fBhxtools\fP(7)
