.TH hcdplay 1 "2013-03-16" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
hcdplay \(em Control autonomous CDDA playback using Linux CDROM ioctls
.SH Syntax
\fBhcdplay\fP [\fB\-CEPRSTs\fP] [\fB\-D\fP \fIdevice\fP] [\fB\-p\fP
\fIfirst-track\fP [\fIlast-track\fP]]
.SH Description
CD-DA discs in CD-ROM drives can either be played back using Digital Audio
Extraction (DAE) where software requests sector by sector, or by using the
drive's autonomous playback functions, whereby the drive's firmware will do the
sector reading. Software is only required for a few control codes to initiate
or terminate playback. (If the drive possesses extra buttons besides the eject
function, such as the Sony CDU5221, Autonomous Playback can even be controlled
using that method as well.)
.PP
With this autonomous play mode, the drive can/will output sound using a variety
of methods. Common ones are a 3.5mm headphone jack and a 4-pin Analog Audio
connector that is supposed to be connected a soundcard. These are often lacking
nowadays, especially external drives, slimline drives, and even internal 5.25"
SATA drives. As such, these drives often do not even implement the Autonomous
Playback functions anymore (the particular ATA commands are ignored).
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-C\fP, \fB\-\-close\fP
Request that the drive be closed.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP, \fB\-\-device\fP \fIdevice\fP
The path to the CD-ROM device node. Defaults to \fB/dev/sr0\fP.
.TP
\fB\-E\fP, \fB\-\-eject\fP
Request that the drive be ejected.
.TP
\fB\-P\fP, \fB\-\-pause\fP
Pause playback. This can only be issued if the CD-ROM drive is in the Playing
state.
.TP
\fB\-R\fP, \fB\-\-resume\fP
Resume playback. This can only be issued if the CD-ROM drive is in the Paused
state.
.TP
\fB\-S\fP, \fB\-\-stop\fP
Stop playback.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP, \fB\-\-toc\fP
Print part of the disc's table of contents (TOC).
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-play\fP [\fIfirst-track\fP [\fIlast-track\fP]]
Start playback of \fIfirst-track\fP and play until \fIlast-track\fP. If no
first track is specified, starts from 1. If no last track is specified, it will
play until the end of the disc.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-start\fP
Start playback.
.SH See also
\fBhxtools\fP(7)
